---
layout: post
title: Spyre
---

At a PyData Meetup last week, some fellow classmates and I were introduced to <a href="https://github.com/adamhajari/spyre" target="_blank">Spyre</a>, a framework for creating data-driven python web apps. It's the simplest way I've found to launch a dynamic web app and not touch HTML or javascript... some days just aren't HTML/javascript days, y'know?

I've been playing around with Spyre for a week now. Here are the basic steps to make an app happen:

1. First, know some python (or copy my code blindly).
2. Install Spyre:

   $ pip install dataspyre
   
3. Open a script file. The name doesn't matter. Let's call it apptlynamed.py.
4. Each Spyre file needs five basic things to get running:

#### Import the module

     from spyre import server

#### Create class

     class SpyreApp(server.App): #inherits the server.App class

#### Define your inputs

     inputs = [{ "type":"text", #specify input format. this is a textbox
                "key":"words", #'words' is the key we will use to refer to value, below
		"label":"write words here", #label for the textbox (optional)
                "value":"hello world", #initial value
                "action_id":"simple_html_output"}] #tells Spyre what to do when value is entered

#### Define your outputs

     outputs = [{"type":"html", #tells Spyre to use getHTML file to find output
                "id":"simple_html_output"}] #needs unique id

#### Launch

     if __name__ == '__main__':
     	app = SimpleApp()
	app.launch(port=8000) #or the port of your choice

5. Copy and paste those five blocks into your script file.
6. On the command line (in the app's directory), type

   $ python apptlynamed.py
   
7. Open your browser and go to localhost:8000. App's up!

Notice that Spyre outputs the following text: "<b>Override</b> the getHTML method to insert your own HTML <i>here</i>"

Let's do that. Inside the SpyreApp class, underneath your outputs, copy the following:

      def getHTML(self, params): #argument params allows you to access inputs
        words = params["words"] #params is a dictionary. grab value entered in textbox with the key 'words'
        return "Here's what you wrote in the textbox: <b>%s</b>" % words #return a string

And, add a title above your inputs:

     title = "Spyre Example"

Basic app, <b>finished</b>.

